zblast 1.3 - shoot the thingies -- for Vectrex!
Copyright (C) 1993-2003 Russell Marks.
              2020, Kevin Koster / PiTrex dev. team.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.


Description
-----------

zblast is a simple but fairly manic shoot-em-up. There are versions
for both svgalib (the original) and X.

-- Modified for PiTrex by Kevin Koster, 2020. SVGAlib function calls
   replaced with calls to "vectrexInterface" library. Other minor
   edits to change things cause problems with the Vectrex.

Installation
------------

-- "make vga" builds for Vectrex. X version not yet adapted.

For zblast (the svgalib version) you need svgalib (surprise :-)) - any
reasonably recent version should be ok. If you don't have X on your
machine, use `make vga' to avoid trying to compile xzb.

For xzb (the X version) you should only need a Unix box with X11R5/R6
and usleep(), but it's only been tested on a Linux (x86) box with gcc
and X11R6 (XFree86). It might actually need a POSIX box with an ANSI C
compiler, I haven't checked. If compiling on a non-Linux box or one
without svgalib, be sure to do `make x' as plain `make' will try to
compile zblast too.

Edit the Makefile as required. For an average Linux box, you won't
need any edits. Do note that you'll need a `games' group - but that
shouldn't be a problem. (I think most distributions have one.)

As usual, `make install' (as root) installs it after you've compiled
whichever versions you want (vga or X or both).

Once it's installed, do `man zblast' for further documentation.


Speed/flicker tweaks
--------------------

On anything remotely modern it'll run quite comfortably. If you have
problems with slower machines, try running with `-small'. That should
speed things up a certain amount. If that's not enough, try `-small
-nomusic'.

By default, both versions use a fast but slightly flickery unbuffered
line drawing style. If you run it with `-dbuf', you get a slower but
flicker-free version. Personally, I don't think the slowdown is worth
it on my machine, but if you have a fast enough box (or a mono X
display, in xzb's case) you might want to try it. (The title animation
is always drawn unbuffered, so don't worry if that still flickers.)

Double buffering worked better for the PiTrex port, so it is now
default. The "-nodbuf" option can now be used to disable it.


Contacting me
-------------

You can email me at rus@svgalib.org.

PiTrex info: http://computernerdkev.heliohost.org/pitrex/

Have fun,
-Rus.

Have fun with a Vectrex,
-Kevin Koster.